in the past I talked about code Canyon
to go get tools and release them on your
website when you give away tools for
free that people are used to paying for
it does really well now what you can do
is you can just use chat GPS and have
them code you up a tool it coded up the
game pong in less than 60 seconds and
you're off into the races
Neil tell me about NP digital's Mission
and how did you arrive at that mission
when we started our overall goal was to
do marketing right I'm a marketer and I
was tired of paying marketing people to
help us out and they just weren't doing
it right and when I say it was just to
my standards whatever they may be and
I'm not saying my standards are great or
bad or good people can judge them on
their own and I was just looking for
people who are Scrappy I was tired of
hearing how you need more budget you
need to spend more I'm like okay how
about you get creative oh you need
budget your competitors spend way more
than you so then I want to build a team
that was creative and who were willing
to try Cutting Edge experiments and
tactics not unethical because I know a
lot of marketing stuff can be unethical
but more so Cutting Edge and try to
produce results for people and be super
creative while doing it and leverage
technology to be more efficient that's
how we ended up starting on the ethical
point I spoke to Seth Godin about this
in episode 200 and we talked a lot about
empathy and he talked about generosity
now I notice that you are very generous
not just in terms of say donations
you're more generous than most people I
know but also in terms of your content
and in terms of the value you try and
give to your audience so can you talk a
little bit about that it's not spoken
about enough generosity and empathy in
business yeah so I'm generous and money
is debatable I know you said it but it's
really a percentage and there's a lot
more richer people who donate a much
bigger percentage than me so I don't
really consider us generous right now
maybe when I'm closer to death and we
give everything away sure then maybe
I'll be generous but also giving away
content I love it selfishly I don't just
do it to help people out I also do it
because I love educating and I learn
just as much as I'm giving because all
those comments and people like oh I
tried this and I did that and I'm having
fun I'm not a saint I'm doing it because
I love it I'm doing it because I love
helping people but I'm also learning a
lot too and people don't think about
that when it comes to content creation
it's a two-sided Marketplace you create
content you educate you build
relationships you learn more you become
wiser I meet a lot of young people kids
who are doing some really cool stuff
because I see my content then they teach
me stuff because I'm starting to get old
and even when it comes to using this
like iPhone I'm not the best person to
figure out this kind of stuff so just
imagine all the other cool technology
that's out there getting to know some of
these young kids is great because they
teach me a lot that I'm not familiar
with oh you learn more when you teach
well as much when you teach as you do
when you actually intend to learn Neil
how do you guys decide on who's going to
be an NP digital partner I don't know
like you said you're a partner I
apologize I didn't know about that also
when you have 7 800 employees it's
really hard to keep track of everything
and you're expanding globally I don't
know everything that goes on in the
business day to day doesn't mean I'm not
working day-to-day I probably work 60 70
hours a week on the business it's just I
don't know everything that goes on I'm
loving your honesty and your
transparency and it's totally okay that
you don't know I completely understand
that no but I should and I'm sorry about
that no you don't I don't think so I
think as a CEO of the business your job
I'm a CEO I would be a terrible CEO but
yeah okay as a leader in the business I
think your job is to set the tone set
the direction and look for opportunities
and drive growth I don't know that it's
possible to be across everything
although we certainly try it's not
always possible to be across everything
and you have hired people to do certain
things so that's fine let me ask you
this what does an ideal customer of NP
digital look like and what problem do
you solve for them global company is
looking for more traffic and sales or
leads from the internet and they need to
tackle this in multiple regions and
languages that's ideal customer
technically we can do it in any region
and technically we can do it for
companies of any size but that's ideal
one because I think what makes us
dangerous is we can do International
work extremely well and if you look at
most holding companies who are biggest
competitors they're only able they're
able to do but it's not in a way where
all the international divisions work
well together because a lot of the ways
they expand as they acquire companies
and they're put in silos and the teams
don't want to work well with each other
because some people aren't out and some
aren't so they're fighting for the
revenue or how much goes to them it's
pretty much my company I don't care if
someone pays this in Australia or India
or the us or Brazil or Mexico I want to
do great amazing work from wherever
they're based and I'll help them out
globally and I don't care which division
they paid yeah fair enough I don't have
the bureaucracy in essence a lot of
those guys have to hit Financial numbers
when you're in these Global ad agencies
and the regions work separately and in
silos so they're competing for the
revenue so it'll be one region collects
the majority of the revenue and then
they assign work to the others and then
they're fighting saying hey but you're
getting the revenue on the books we want
more and then they argue and they don't
put as much time we don't have those
issues because we're not publicly traded
and it's just me who's a decision maker
for most things right I technically the
team is the decision makers and they're
amazing at what they do but if you just
look at it from a shareholder
perspective I'm the majority I can
dictate whatever I want and I want to
dictate what's best for our customers
and I was going to ask you this question
later but I'm going to ask it to you now
about public versus private but before I
do I just want to mention that is an
advantage of staying private because as
I understand it if you're publicly
traded there's all these transfer
pricing issues and stuff that come into
play I'm not sure I could be wrong but
I'm not sure that applies for private
companies I'll need to look that up it's
been a long time since I looked at
accounting principles you're talking
about transfer pricing when you're
working in our company in different
regions right yeah when you're you said
company internal parts of the business
we're required to use transfer pricing
you are required to do it
uh okay this is where CFO says maybe I'm
wrong but I know for a fact he says we
need to do it and you got to allocate
but again my CEO came from a public
betrayed company so he may be saying
that because that's what they do
I don't care either way of what they do
or they don't do I just care that the
clients get results and we're doing
what's best for them that's it I love
that Simplicity of the approach talk to
us about why you've chosen not to go
public and stay private we've had offers
when the market was big we still get
offers and when I say offers I'm talking
about not like the Canadian Stock
Exchange like the TSX for Toronto I'm
talking about the some of the exchanges
in the US people want to do specs it's
not about money it's about money from a
growth perspective because then I know
I'm doing better but it's not about a
money like oh I got this big payday and
I got this checked I went public yay I
look at that as and when you go public
you can liquidate your shares over time
maybe you can liquidate more at the
beginning depending on how you do it but
I look at that as a pain who wants to
answer to all those shareholders it's
not even what the money is it's like
this just sounds miserable I don't want
to answer to all these people oh you
want to expand internationally your
quarterly numbers are terrible why do
you want to do this and like I don't
want to answer it anymore I just want to
do what I feel best for the business and
the team feels is best for the business
and best for our customers and I feel
exactly the same way about external
funding and that's why I've never
accepted external funding because the
minute you do you lose a dependence
unless you get it from the right people
there's a lot of wealth funds out there
that just give checks and they stay out
of your way that's the dream how do you
give this more Capital to grow faster
and just stay out of our way that's it
yeah I don't know how common that is but
from what I've seen if you bring in VCS
and stuff they're generally after the
honeymoon period's over it's show me the
money and then there's a whole lot of
pressure and then you're not running
your business anymore you're working as
someone's employee and then you ask
yourself why not in the first place
that's correct okay a lot of our
listeners and viewers are say six figure
five-figure business owners how do they
increase sales in this interest rate
environment and this challenging economy
the same way you would do it if you were
in a good economy you do things like SEO
and omnichannel marketing and
participate in the Social Web or run
webinars or run paid ads and optimize
your landing pages in your conversions
there's not much that changes in a good
economy versus a bad economy it really
is the same fundamentals you just got to
make sure you're okay from a finance
perspective and you're healthy how is
SEO changing in this rapidly evolving
artificial intelligence environment one
thing is for sure when it comes to
content creation which is intricately
linked to SEO we need to infuse more
stories and more experiences into our
content it's not just going to be about
tactics because you can just get that
from chat GPT or whatever right but what
else are you doing besides that if
anything and how do you see artificial
intelligence impacting content creation
down the track do you see AI being able
to do the stuff that we are doing which
is infusing stories and stuff say six
months or a year hence I don't really
see the AI being able to have six months
to a year ahead where they're
integrating stories that are so amazing
that people want to read them I think
people oh overestimate what AI can do in
the short run and they underestimate
what it can do in the long run I do
think a is going to change a lot in the
long run and it's going to blow people
away but in the short run has a lot of
work to be done and it's still really
new the way search is changing is people
are adjusting their queries more than
anything else forget about how Google's
showing results for a minute it's very
rare that in the past because we track a
lot of the key words and the search
volume and data it's very rare that
people say I have a three-year-old and a
one-year-old and I live in Las Vegas and
I'm looking to do a summer vacation in a
place that's not more than 70 degrees
Fahrenheit where should I go that would
work out really well and as affordable
and would cost less than a hundred
dollars a night or two hundred dollars a
night you got what I mean this is like
so specific that's not how people search
but that is how people are starting to
search because of AI it's answering
their questions that's the big thing
that we're seeing shifts in what we're
also seeing shifts in is the results in
how things are placed just like how you
had the knowledge graph and things like
Google saying what's the weather in Las
Vegas Nevada or Sydney Australia it used
to be where you would click on
weather.com to see the weather now they
just show you the weather if you ask
them what's two plus two they just give
you the answer it's a similar thing so
that may decrease some clicks but this
will also cause more usage in Google
which in theory in the long run should
still drive enough traffic and they'll
generate enough Revenue I think in the
really long run and they're so far away
from this if you type in I want to buy
some red trainers or shoes the AI will
know that this is your size this is Neil
searching you prefer Michael Jordan
shoes so here's all the Jordans select
one boom you click a button you buy it
through Google pay I really believe
that's what search will have ended up
coming to in the long run I don't see
that happening in the next few years
that is going to be really hard for them
to read my mind conflict exactly what I
wanted to know what size that I am and
know that I prefer the next day because
of my calendar and I need it for this
basketball game so that is what I see in
the long but we're far from there and
they're not going to kill off their big
Revenue generator which is ads and even
if they Implement all this stuff they'll
figure out how to move to more of a CPA
model and still generate the ad Revenue
so just to be clear when you said that
people aren't typing in I have a kid
that's 3 and 11 and all that sort of
stuff you know they're starting to now
they were in the past they weren't
getting that specific so people are
actually typing that much detail into a
search query yes because they want the
AI to just give them the answer oh so AI
you don't think already has all this
information on them and assumes that
these are their demographic and
psychographic traits when they type in
the question they have to actually type
it in at the moment the more specific
they get the better the AI is okay it's
not a place where you can be Broad and
get amazing answers that work for
everyone but when you get super specific
the answers are really good okay chat
GPT versus Bard can you share your
thoughts on that I've been saying this
for a long time google has the biggest
index out there they have a better data
set it's more fresh they're gonna win
your output is based on your input their
inputs are better than chat GPT so their
output should be better they've been
working on Bard for a very long time I
get the first version they botched it I
still believe that they're going to be a
winner they showcase what the recent
stuff is and it looks great and looks
better than Chad gbt but I believe
they'll win in the long run and yes more
people are using Bing but Google's not
losing any traffic and it's not like
less people are losing Google that's
really off when people are like oh
they're going to go from Google to bingo
they're not we're not seeing any of that
okay we're looking at the damn traffic
says in the data and we're not seeing
any of that stuff people can make
whatever assumptions they want now
Google is going to be scanning websites
less frequently going forward to be more
energy efficient and so on better on the
environment yep so what does this mean
for us as content creators if we publish
content or update our content more
frequently does that mean our website is
more likely to be scanned more
frequently by Google because Google
picks that up they want to update it
when it's as fresh but there's a lot of
websites out there that don't update
their old content and if they have a
history of doing that Google doesn't
need to crawl it as often but there's a
lot of websites like Wikipedia that
Continue to update them and I bet you
Google will still crawl them very
frequently it's just fine-tuning it so
that way they're not wasting energy when
they don't need to and that's one of the
best SEO hacks I've come across that I
don't see people using enough and that
is go back and update your old content
yeah and it's not even hard just go to
Google Search console and look at your
your traffic and look at the pages that
decline the most and go those first
because then you're more likely to
recover your traffic and grow it yeah
that's such a simple hack speaking of
simple hacks in terms of growing email
lists and growing an audience you talked
about using Code Canyon to get cheap or
free software which you can then use
yeah I'm sorry to cut you off but you
don't need to do that now so you're
right in the past I talked about code
Canyon to go get tools and release them
on your website if you look at my email
database because I have tools the tools
at least 200 000 net new emails a month
which is a lot but the reason we do
extremely is when you give away tools
for free that people are used to paying
for it does really well and we don't
give everything away for free but the
majority of the features are for free
now what you can do is you can just use
chat GPT or Bard and have them code you
up a tool it coded up the game pong in
less than 60 seconds you can have them
code you up almost anything or you can
pay code Canyon 10 20 30 50 100 bucks
whatever it costs usually doesn't cost
100 usually much cheaper than that and
you're off into the races so talk to us
a little bit about that model where you
offer people some kind of a utility in
terms of software to build an audience
and get them to use your website more
yeah so figure out what people are
paying for in your industry that you can
make for free and give it away for free
and you'll naturally just get traffic
without doing any marketing over time it
takes time you won't have you won't see
the results in one day and that helps
you build a brand which is another thing
you say is very important and I
completely agree with if you can get
searched for Via your brand or if your
business becomes a verb Google it or as
you often say Nike is searched for far
more than the word shoes so building a
brand like that is critical would you
agree yes I think it's very critical
from an SEO standpoint business
standpoint every standpoint yeah
Google's Maggie update what's that about
so Maggie is their new project it's
remember the example I gave what choose
red basketball shoes it just shows you
what you're ideally looking for more
prompt based question based that's what
they're working on and that will really
impact search but I think it's years and
years away from being amazing I'm not
saying Google's doing a bad job this is
hard to read people's minds you can't do
that stuff in one day or one year it
doesn't matter how long they've been
working on that yeah look last question
Sam Altman's recent Senate hearing was
quite an eye-opener and some people were
concerned that AI could be a threat to
humanity I'm curious to get your take on
it I leave that for the smart people I
have no idea I don't think it is but I
don't know any better Elon musk's and
Bill Gates and people like that will
have a much better perspective than me
all right look we've talked about quite
a few things I'm just going to do a
quick round up we talked about profit
versus Revenue the importance of
building a good team and how you find
good team members by looking at team
members who work for multiple
competitors and have risen through the
ranks because they clearly have a skill
we talked a bit about MP digital's
Mission we talked about your approach to
profit versus Revenue the importance of
brand a bit about Google AI how to
create better content is there anything
else you want to add and any quick
action steps that a listeners can take
if they want to get better at building a
brand and a business I think we covered
a lot this isn't going to answer your
question but if I was telling people to
build a brand in business obsess about
your customers create amazing product or
service and in the longer and that's how
you win it's not marketing it's not SEO
it's not paid ads it's not social media
all those things help you but what you
really need is amazing product or
service without that it doesn't matter
how much marketing you do you're not
going to win at the end of the day I
think that's a great point to close on
and if you're watching or listening
check out episode 222 with Derek sivers
who built and sold CD Baby for 22
million dollars completely driven by a
customer-based approach and his story is
remarkable and he shared it all on the
podcast so Neil you've been generous as
always thank you so much it would be
great to have another one of these
conversations sometime down the track
and check in and see what's been
happening in your world sounds good all
right buddy thanks so much for your time
ciao thank you